

# String Kit

A string manipulation toolbox, featuring a string formater (inspired by printf), a variable inspector
(output featuring ANSI color and HTML) and various escape function (shell argument, regexp, html, etc).

* License: MIT
* Current status: beta
* Platform: Node.js only (browser support is planned)



# Install

Use Node Package Manager:

    npm install string-kit



# Escape functions collection

## .escape.shellArg( str )

* str `String` the string to filter

It escapes the string so that it will be suitable as a shell command's argument.



## .escape.regExp( str ) , .escape.regExpPattern( str ) 

* str `String` the string to filter

It escapes the string so that it will be suitable to inject it in a regular expression's pattern as a literal string.

Example of a search and replace from a user's input:
```js
var result = data.replace(
	new RegExp( stringKit.escape.regExp( userInputSearch ) , 'g' ) ,
	stringKit.escape.regExpReplacement( userInputReplace )
) ;
```



## .escape.regExpReplacement( str )

* str `String` the string to filter

It escapes the string so that it will be suitable as a literal string for a regular expression's replacement.



## .escape.html( str )

* str `String` the string to filter

It escapes the string so that it will be suitable as HTML content.

Only  `< > &` are replaced by HTML entities.



## .escape.htmlAttr( str )

* str `String` the string to filter

It escapes the string so that it will be suitable as an HTML tag attribute's value.

Only  `< > & "` are replaced by HTML entities.

It assumes valid HTML: the attribute's value should be into double quote, not in single quote.



## .escape.htmlSpecialChars( str )

* str `String` the string to filter

It escapes all HTML special characters, `< > & " '` are replaced by HTML entities.



## .escape.control( str )

* str `String` the string to filter

It escapes all ASCII control characters (code lesser than or equals to 0x1F, or *backspace*).

*Carriage return*, *newline* and *tabulation* are respectively replaced by `\r`, `\n` and `\t`.
Other characters are replaced by the unicode notation, e.g. `NUL` is replaced by `\x00`.





Full BDD spec generated by Mocha:


